# P2 This report is serious and should be handled as a priority

**NOTE:** *These are all examples based on the types of incidents which can occur in an open source community, and not based on any specific events or incidents and do not come with prescriptive resolutions. Rather, these are intended to help you practice thinking about the context, capacity and scope of incidents.*

*For cases of this urgency, its important to work with HR, legal, policy and other stakeholders as much as possible while prioritizing the privacy and safety of individuals.*

**Example Scenario 1**: At a community member hackathon, its noted that people of the primary demographic have taken all coding/development work and assigned non-technical and design work to underrepresented people who have specifically signed up for technical contribution.  Two of those people leave, but the third uses the code of conduct to report their experience of being excluded from what they believe is based on their background.  

**Always trust the experienced of people who are brave enough to share them**.  It might be your default to think '**I am sure they didn't mean it*', or 'maybe the reporter misunderstood that this person wanted to do technical work', but what you should know is that this person is an expert in their experience.  A case like this really depends on who is involved - do the folks excluding others have a history of that behavior?  Does the person reporting actually want to remain with the project if the situation is corrected?  They might be very upset, and are using the reporting to make sure that in future, this doesn't happen for others (and you should welcome that chance).  Take time to listen to the person reporting, ask what they would like to see as an outcome and move to resolve accordingly.  If there are people working on behalf of a company, use their HR processes to report as well.  

**Example Scenario 2**: One of your colleagues (working on open source) is expecting a new baby in the coming months, she has privately shared this with a community member she trusts.  During a PR review involving both of these community members, there is a brief but strong disagreement about the direction of an issue between them, where this person blurts out 'maybe you have baby brain' (or some similar language that exposes her pregnancy to everyone else) .

**Privacy and security online is deeply tied to people's ability to control information about ourselves that may result in targeting or decisions about our capabilities that are among other things sexist, or discriminatory against someone's physical state**.  This is why some people limit what their profiles say about their gender-identity, age, ethnicity or even geographic location.  Exposing information information not shared by the individual publically places them potentially to harm, but also to judgement that results in lost opportunity.  This person may not have shared their pregnancy status with a boss, or a family member (etc), thus important to consult your colleague about how they would like to handle the issue, or use HR processes.  

Addressing the person who decided to use someone's pregnancy status against them to win an argument, should receive serious consequences.  

